---
layout: post
title: 'Smarthome Saga Part 1 - Getting Started'
author: "Anders Lauridsen"
categories: journal
tags: [python]
image: royalty_free/pexels-jakub-zerdzicki-17536106.jpg
---

Since I first got my own place I've wanted to get a "smarthome". My journey started out with buying an Ikea Trådfri bulb and hub, so that I could have cool RGB lights in my one-bedroom apartment. That was also around the time I first got into Linux and Python. My first foray into interacting with my smarthome outside the scope of the Ikea smarthome app, was using [pytradfri](https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/pytradfri) on my Linux laptop to control my lights. This was imensely fun, and lasted about 30 minutes before I borked my lights, and had to do a reset on them.

Over the years since I have bought more lights, some Google smart speakers, and a smart TV (which is just a TV these days...). But I never really got into self-hosting smart solutions since then, until 2023 when I received a Raspberry Pi 5 for my birthday.

This blog-post details my first dive into self-hosting my smarthome, and my hope is that it will be one of many posts talking about setting up cool features, only really allowed by self-hosting. In this post I will talk about how I set up conditional reminders, and turned my VERY old speaker system into a "smart" speaker system by using the Spotify connect protocol.

**Table of Contents**
---
- [1. Hardware](#1-hardware)
  - [Raspberry Pi 5](#raspberry-pi-5)
  - [Ikea TRÅDFRI](#ikea-trådfri)
  - [Google Nest Mini](#google-nest-mini)
  - [Old Speaker System](#old-speaker-system)
  - [Samsung Smart TV](#samsung-smart-tv)
- [2. Software](#2-software)
  - [Docker](#docker)
  - [Home Assistant](#home-assistant)
  - [Raspotify](#raspotify)
- [3. Uses So Far](#3-uses-so-far)
  - [Reminders](#reminders)
  - [Smartifying Old Speakers](#smartifying-old-speakers)
- [4. Future Work](#4-future-work)

---

# 1. Hardware
## Raspberry Pi 5

## Ikea TRÅDFRI

## Google Nest Mini

## Old Speaker System

## Samsung Smart TV

# 2. Software

## Docker

## Home Assistant

## Raspotify

# 3. Uses So Far

## Reminders

## Smartifying Old Speakers

# 4. Future Work
